---
title: Memory
layout: post
---

Memory- Natrual Proccess of your mind encoding and understanding information. Psychologist view memory as an **"information proccessing system"**.
## Memory Process
1. **Encodes-** Proccess of understanding the material.
2. **Rehearses-** Practice with the material.
3. **Stores-** Brain then stores material in compartments for retrieval later.
4. **Retrieves-** Bits of information being decoded.

Occurs in 3 systems.
* Sensory memory
* Short-term memory
* Long-term memory
### Processing
**Shallow Processing-** knowing something just to know. <br>
**Maintenace Rehearsal-** involves simple repertation.<br>
**Deep Processing-** Understanding and relating to something in order to store in memory.<br>
**Elaborative Rehearsal-** Encoding by forming association between new information & already stored information.<br>
### Retrieval
**Serial Position Effect-** Positioning of an item affects our ability to encode and store the material.<br>
**Primacy Effect-** We best rember the first thing in a list.<br>
**Recency Effect-** We best rember the last thing we hear in a list.<br>
**Sensory Memory-** A very brief memory for sensory information. <br>
### Types of Encoding
Visual = Iconic<br>
Acoustic = Auditory || Echoic<br>
Meaning = Semantic<br>
Automatic Processing = Thing's that encode without effort.<br>
Effortful Processing = Thing's that take effort to encode.<br>
### Short-Term Memory
Used for working, a limited very brief storage system that holds items we are aware of & workint with at any given time. It is limited to 15-20 seconds until rehearsed. This tme can be increased through Chunking- orginizing things into groups of meaningful or well-practiced information.<br>
## Long-Term Memory
Our more or less permanet memory storage. Almost unlimited capacity and duration. <br>
### Types of Long-Term Memories
**Episodic Memories:** Personally Experienced Events<br>
**Semantic Memory:** Factual Knowledge<br>
**Procedural Memory:** Relate to skill or habit<br>
**Explicit Memory:** Memories of which one is connsciously aware things like phone numbers. Processed in the hippocampus.<br>
**Implicit Memory:** Memories of which one is unconnsciously aware. Processed in the cerebellum<br>
**Priming-** process by which a memory activates another memory.<br>
### Retrival
Ability to remember information.<br>
**Recall-** Remembering terms.<br>
**Recognition-** Remembering  something upon seeing it or with a retrieval cue.<br>
We "Fill in the gaps"<br>
**False Memory-** Creating something that was never there.<br>
**Misinformation Effect-** The way questions are presented can change your memory of an event.<br>
**Flashbulb Memory-**Vivid memories of surprising or emotional events.<br>
**Mood-Congruent Memory-** Tendency to recall experiences that are consistent with your current mood<br>
**Mnemonics-** Mental strategies that make it easier to remeber information.<br>
**Method of Loci-** Make a grocery list... place the items in your house.<br>
## Forgetting
The inability to retrive information. Decay theory argues that forgetting is caused by the passing of time.
### Interference Theory
**Proactive Interference-** forgetting due to interference from old info.<br>
**Retroactive Interference-** Forgetting due to interference from new info.<br>
### Repression Theory (Sigmund Freud)
**Repression-** Painful memories are self-censored and stored in the unconscious mind.<br>
**Suppression-** Motivated forgetting person consciously tries to forget something.<br>
**Anterograde Amnesia-** Inabiltiy to form long term mememories due to physical injury.<br>
**Retrograde Amnesia-** Less of information prevosly stored in long term due to physical Injury.<br>